README.md, before:

HDFS for Go
===========

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/colinmarc/hdfs/web?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/colinmarc/hdfs) [![build](https://travis-ci.org/colinmarc/hdfs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/colinmarc/hdfs)

This is a native golang client for hdfs. It connects directly to the namenode using
the protocol buffers API.

It tries to be idiomatic by aping the stdlib `os` package, where possible, and
implements the interfaces from it, including `os.FileInfo` and `os.PathError`.

Here's what it looks like in action:

```go
client, _ := hdfs.New("namenode:8020")

file, _ := client.Open("/mobydick.txt")

buf := make([]byte, 59)
file.ReadAt(buf, 48847)

fmt.Println(string(buf))
// => Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison.
```

For complete documentation, check out the [Godoc][1].

The `hdfs` Binary
-----------------

Along with the library, this repo contains a commandline client for HDFS. Like
the library, its primary aim is to be idiomatic, by enabling your favorite unix
verbs:


    $ hdfs --help
    Usage: hdfs COMMAND
    The flags available are a subset of the POSIX ones, but should behave similarly.

    Valid commands:
      ls [-lah] [FILE]...
      rm [-rf] FILE...
      mv [-fT] SOURCE... DEST
      mkdir [-p] FILE...
      touch [-amc] FILE...
      chmod [-R] OCTAL-MODE FILE...
      chown [-R] OWNER[:GROUP] FILE...
      cat SOURCE...
      head [-n LINES | -c BYTES] SOURCE...
      tail [-n LINES | -c BYTES] SOURCE...
      du [-sh] FILE...
      checksum FILE...
      get SOURCE [DEST]
      getmerge SOURCE DEST
      put SOURCE DEST

Since it doesn't have to wait for the JVM to start up, it's also a lot faster
`hadoop -fs`:

    $ time hadoop fs -ls / > /dev/null

    real  0m2.218s
    user  0m2.500s
    sys 0m0.376s

    $ time hdfs ls / > /dev/null

    real  0m0.015s
    user  0m0.004s
    sys 0m0.004s

Best of all, it comes with bash tab completion for paths!

Installing the library
----------------------

To install the library, once you have Go [all set up][2]:

    $ go get -u github.com/colinmarc/hdfs

Installing the commandline client
---------------------------------

Grab a tarball from the [releases page](https://github.com/colinmarc/hdfs/releases)
and unzip it wherever you like.

You'll want to add the following line to your `.bashrc` or `.profile`:

    export HADOOP_NAMENODE="namenode:8020"

To install tab completion globally on linux, copy or link the `bash_completion`
file which comes with the tarball into the right place:

    ln -sT bash_completion /etc/bash_completion.d/gohdfs

By default, the HDFS user is set to the currently-logged-in user. You can
override this in your `.bashrc` or `.profile`:

    export HADOOP_USER_NAME=username

Compatibility
-------------

This library uses "Version 9" of the HDFS protocol, which means it should work
with hadoop distributions based on 2.2.x and above. The tests run against CDH
5.x and HDP 2.x.

Acknowledgements
----------------

This library is heavily indebted to [snakebite][3].

[1]: https://godoc.org/github.com/colinmarc/hdfs
[2]: https://golang.org/doc/install
[3]: https://github.com/spotify/snakebite

Commit message:

Add some Kerberos documentation to the README

README.md, after:

HDFS for Go
===========

[![GoDoc](https://godoc.org/github.com/colinmarc/hdfs/web?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/colinmarc/hdfs) [![build](https://travis-ci.org/colinmarc/hdfs.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/colinmarc/hdfs)

This is a native golang client for hdfs. It connects directly to the namenode using
the protocol buffers API.

It tries to be idiomatic by aping the stdlib `os` package, where possible, and
implements the interfaces from it, including `os.FileInfo` and `os.PathError`.

Here's what it looks like in action:

```go
client, _ := hdfs.New("namenode:8020")

file, _ := client.Open("/mobydick.txt")

buf := make([]byte, 59)
file.ReadAt(buf, 48847)

fmt.Println(string(buf))
// => Abominable are the tumblers into which he pours his poison.
```

For complete documentation, check out the [Godoc][1].

The `hdfs` Binary
-----------------

Along with the library, this repo contains a commandline client for HDFS. Like
the library, its primary aim is to be idiomatic, by enabling your favorite unix
verbs:


    $ hdfs --help
    Usage: hdfs COMMAND
    The flags available are a subset of the POSIX ones, but should behave similarly.

    Valid commands:
      ls [-lah] [FILE]...
      rm [-rf] FILE...
      mv [-fT] SOURCE... DEST
      mkdir [-p] FILE...
      touch [-amc] FILE...
      chmod [-R] OCTAL-MODE FILE...
      chown [-R] OWNER[:GROUP] FILE...
      cat SOURCE...
      head [-n LINES | -c BYTES] SOURCE...
      tail [-n LINES | -c BYTES] SOURCE...
      du [-sh] FILE...
      checksum FILE...
      get SOURCE [DEST]
      getmerge SOURCE DEST
      put SOURCE DEST

Since it doesn't have to wait for the JVM to start up, it's also a lot faster
`hadoop -fs`:

    $ time hadoop fs -ls / > /dev/null

    real  0m2.218s
    user  0m2.500s
    sys 0m0.376s

    $ time hdfs ls / > /dev/null

    real  0m0.015s
    user  0m0.004s
    sys 0m0.004s

Best of all, it comes with bash tab completion for paths!

Installing the library
----------------------

To install the library, once you have Go [all set up][2]:

    $ go get -u github.com/colinmarc/hdfs

Installing the commandline client
---------------------------------

Grab a tarball from the [releases page](https://github.com/colinmarc/hdfs/releases)
and unzip it wherever you like.

To configure the client, make sure one or both of these environment variables
point to your Hadoop configuration (`core-site.xml` and `hdfs-site.xml`). On
systems with Hadoop installed, they should already be set.

    $ export HADOOP_HOME="/etc/hadoop"
    $ export HADOOP_CONF_DIR="/etc/hadoop/conf"

To install tab completion globally on linux, copy or link the `bash_completion`
file which comes with the tarball into the right place:

    $ ln -sT bash_completion /etc/bash_completion.d/gohdfs

By default on non-kerberized clusters, the HDFS user is set to the
currently-logged-in user. You can override this with another environment
variable:

    $ export HADOOP_USER_NAME=username

Using the commandline client with Kerberos authentication
---------------------------------------------------------

Like `hadoop fs`, the commandline client expects a `ccache` file in the default
location: `/tmp/krb5cc_<uid>`. That means it should 'just work' to use `kinit`:

    $ kinit bob@EXAMPLE.com
    $ hdfs ls /

If that doesn't work, try setting the `KRB5CCNAME` environment variable to
wherever you have the `ccache` saved.

Compatibility
-------------

This library uses "Version 9" of the HDFS protocol, which means it should work
with hadoop distributions based on 2.2.x and above. The tests run against CDH
5.x and HDP 2.x.

Acknowledgements
----------------

This library is heavily indebted to [snakebite][3].

[1]: https://godoc.org/github.com/colinmarc/hdfs
[2]: https://golang.org/doc/install
[3]: https://github.com/spotify/snakebite
